##Luis Rojas - 

Over my discussions with Luis, I noticed he tends to present himself rather modestly. He works a day job as a front end developer at a private security company, enjoys working with technology and relaxing on the weekends with his family, friends and a few beers. He's also a die hard football fan and talks a great deal about his passion for the sport. However, this unassuming introduction turned out to be quite the deception, a veil hiding the challenging circumstances he has had to survive to get to this point. Read on as we explore the circumstances have directly shaped the grand ambitions that led him to pursue studies in web development at Modern Developer.

##La Comarca Lagunera

Hailing from Mexico, Luis was born in Torreón in the north state of Coahuila and has has lived in a region called *La Comarca Lagunera* his whole life. He describes life in this city as pleasant, with kind people and warm weather. Unfortunately, the city has acted as a bridge for drug trafficking between Mexico and the United States for many years. In 2009, the two most powerful drug cartels started a war for control of this bridge and made life in the city extremely unsafe. It was a stark change, going from a normal life where you were only just aware of such activities going on behind the scenes to facing an all out war where leaving the house might land you in the middle of the next skirmish. A lot of innocent people lost their lives at this time as they found themselves in the wrong place at the wrong time.

This unstable civil situation had a profound impact that went beyond security and quality of life - Economics and education suffered a great deal as well. A large number of local business had closed down as the cartels wanted to extort money from them to fund their war. This led to a very risky situation for the honest and hard-working people who lived there as failure to cooperate meant risking their lives and the lives of their children. Listening to Luis describe the situation is rather surreal and offers a great deal of perspective, especially as an observer who has been fortunate never have had to worry about safety in these terms before. Fortunately, in 2013 the situation started improving and the war died down for reasons that remain unclear. In any case, life in *La Comarca Lagunera* is slowly returning to normal. Businesses are reopening the nightlife is returning to how it used to be - leaving residents hopeful of living the good old days once again, not too far in the future.

##Web Development and Social Entrepreneurship

Luis discovered web development when he was interning at the only electrical company in Mexico. He used HTML, CSS and PHP on some of their projects but soon left the professional web development sphere as he pursued a career in an unrelated field for the next five years. He still kept his connection to development alive by watching tutorials and building pet projects in his spare time. In 2014, having witnessed the terrible societal impact that the situation in his city had on the people around him, Luis was inspired to use his abilities to alleviate the social issues around him. He later learned that this is called social entrepreneurship and had found his true calling in this field.

Luis aims to harness the power of the web to eradicate problems his city faces in the areas of security, economics and education among others. He realizes the impact the web can make to his city and is determined to see it realized. He dreams of setting up a web development agency and one of his grand ideas involves building a platform to unite professionals like him who wish to use their skills to help the social problems in the city. Keeping that at the forefront of his mind, he patiently works away at his daytime job and the assignments here at Modern Developer. He knows the safety he lives in at the moment may not last but is eager to make the most of it while it does.

##Soccer and Down Time

In his spare time, Luis like to relax with his family and friends and he's quite the football aficionado. One of his dreams was to be a professional soccer player but despite being praised for his talent on the field, circumstances didn't permit him to do so. Now he enjoys playing a variant  of traditional soccer called Uruguay soccer (played with seven members on each team) with his friends. He also maintains a YouTube channel with two of his best friends where they talk about La Liga MX - a soccer league in Mexico.

When asked about his favorite experiences, he recalls that the most enjoyable experience he had was when he visited the beach with his family for the first time. He dreams of living by the beach some day and experiencing the sand, water and warm weather in his daily life.

